README.md, before:

# Health Information Management System (HIMS)

A comprehensive system for managing patient health records, programs, and external API integrations.

## Table of Contents

- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Local Development Setup](#local-development-setup)
- [Docker Setup](#docker-setup)
- [API Documentation](#api-documentation)
- [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
- [Running Tests](#running-tests)
- [License](#license)

## Prerequisites

- Node.js v16+
- npm v8+
- MongoDB 5.0+
- Docker 20.10+ (optional)
- Docker Compose 2.0+ (optional)

## Local Development Setup

1. **Clone the repository**:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/bruceoaudo/health_info_management_system.git
   cd health_info_management_system
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Set up environment variables**  
   Create a `.env` file in the root directory and configure the following environment variables:

   ```env
    PORT=5000
    MONGO_URI_DEV=mongodb://localhost:27017/health-info-system-db
    MONGO_URI_PROD=mongodb://health-info-system-mongo:27017/health-info-system-db
    JWT_SECRET=yoursecret
    NODE_ENV=development
   ```

4. **Run this command to start the mongo docker image in detached mode**

   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

5. **Start the development server**

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

   The application will be available at <http://localhost:5000>

## Alternative approach(using Docker)

1. **Start the whole app using docker.Run:**

   ```bash
   docker-compose --profile app up -d
   ```

   The application will be available at <http://localhost:5000>

## External API Documentation

### Get Client Profile

**Endpoint**:  
`GET /external/client-profile/:id`

#### Example Request

```http
GET /external/client-profile/507f1f77bcf86cd799439011 HTTP/1.1
Host: http://localhost:5000
```

#### Example Response

```json
{
  "apiVersion": "1.0",
  "data": {
    "clientId": "507f1f77bcf86cd799439011",
    "identification": {
      "fullName": "John Doe",
      "governmentId": "123456789",
      "gender": "Male",
      "dateOfBirth": "1980-01-01"
    },
    "contactInformation": {
      "phone": "+254712345678",
      "email": "john.doe@example.com",
      "address": {
        "city": "Nairobi",
        "region": "Nairobi County",
        "country": "Kenya",
        "postalCode": "00100"
      }
    },
    "programEnrollments": ["507f1f77bcf86cd799439012"],
    "lastUpdated": "2023-05-15T09:30:45.000Z"
  },
  "systemMetadata": {
    "timestamp": "2023-05-16T14:20:30.123Z",
    "sourceSystem": "HIMS"
  }
}
```

#### Error Responses

1. **400 Bad Request(Invalid ID format)**

```json
{
  "success": false,
  "error": "INVALID_ID_FORMAT",
  "message": "Provided client ID is not valid"
}
```

2. **404 Not Found(Client not found)**

```json
{
  "success": false,
  "error": "CLIENT_NOT_FOUND",
  "message": "No client found with the provided ID"
}
```

3. **500 Internal Ssrver Error**

```json
{
  "success": false,
  "error": "INTERNAL_ERROR",
  "message": "An internal system error occurred",
  "systemError": "Detailed error (only in development)",
  "timestamp": "2023-05-16T14:20:30.123Z"
}
```

Commit message:

Added the prototype demonstration video, updated the README.md file too

README.md, after:

# Health Information Management System (HIMS)

A comprehensive system for managing patient health records, programs, and external API integrations.

The prototype demonstration is located in the main folder. Look for a file called PROTOTYPE_DEMONSTRATION.mp4

The powerpoint presentation is also in the main folder. Look for a file called POWERPOINT_PRESENTATION.pptx

## Table of Contents

- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Local Development Setup](#local-development-setup)
- [Docker Setup](#docker-setup)
- [API Documentation](#api-documentation)
- [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
- [Running Tests](#running-tests)
- [License](#license)

## Prerequisites

- Node.js v16+
- npm v8+
- MongoDB 5.0+
- Docker 20.10+ (optional)
- Docker Compose 2.0+ (optional)

## Local Development Setup

1. **Clone the repository**:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/bruceoaudo/health_info_management_system.git
   cd health_info_management_system
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Set up environment variables**  
   Create a `.env` file in the root directory and configure the following environment variables:

   ```env
    PORT=5000
    MONGO_URI_DEV=mongodb://localhost:27017/health-info-system-db
    MONGO_URI_PROD=mongodb://health-info-system-mongo:27017/health-info-system-db
    JWT_SECRET=yoursecret
    NODE_ENV=development
   ```

4. **Run this command to start the mongo docker image in detached mode**

   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

5. **Start the development server**

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

   The application will be available at <http://localhost:5000>

## Alternative approach(using Docker)

1. **Start the whole app using docker.Run:**

   ```bash
   docker-compose --profile app up -d
   ```

   The application will be available at <http://localhost:5000>

## External API Documentation

### Get Client Profile

**Endpoint**:  
`GET /external/client-profile/:id`

#### Example Request

```http
GET /external/client-profile/507f1f77bcf86cd799439011 HTTP/1.1
Host: http://localhost:5000
```

#### Example Response

```json
{
  "apiVersion": "1.0",
  "data": {
    "clientId": "507f1f77bcf86cd799439011",
    "identification": {
      "fullName": "John Doe",
      "governmentId": "123456789",
      "gender": "Male",
      "dateOfBirth": "1980-01-01"
    },
    "contactInformation": {
      "phone": "+254712345678",
      "email": "john.doe@example.com",
      "address": {
        "city": "Nairobi",
        "region": "Nairobi County",
        "country": "Kenya",
        "postalCode": "00100"
      }
    },
    "programEnrollments": ["507f1f77bcf86cd799439012"],
    "lastUpdated": "2023-05-15T09:30:45.000Z"
  },
  "systemMetadata": {
    "timestamp": "2023-05-16T14:20:30.123Z",
    "sourceSystem": "HIMS"
  }
}
```

#### Error Responses

1. **400 Bad Request(Invalid ID format)**

```json
{
  "success": false,
  "error": "INVALID_ID_FORMAT",
  "message": "Provided client ID is not valid"
}
```

2. **404 Not Found(Client not found)**

```json
{
  "success": false,
  "error": "CLIENT_NOT_FOUND",
  "message": "No client found with the provided ID"
}
```

3. **500 Internal Ssrver Error**

```json
{
  "success": false,
  "error": "INTERNAL_ERROR",
  "message": "An internal system error occurred",
  "systemError": "Detailed error (only in development)",
  "timestamp": "2023-05-16T14:20:30.123Z"
}
```
